===============
Getting Started
===============

Welcome to FIX Gateway (FGW).

Installation
------------

Begin by cloning the Git repository

::

    git clone git@github.com:makerplane/FIX-Gateway.git fixgw

or

::

    git clone https://github.com/makerplane/FIX-Gateway.git fixgw

Then run one of the two helper scripts.

::

    ./fixgw.py
    ./fixgwc.py

These will run the client and the server respectively.

The configuration files are in the ``fixgw/config`` directory.

If you'd like to install the program permanently to your system or into a
virtualenv you can issue the command...

::

  sudo pip3 install .

from the root directory of the source repository.

After installing with pip3 two helper scripts will be installed in the user's
search path.  These are ``fixgw`` and ``fixgwc`` for the server and client
repectively.  Once installed properly these commands can be used from anywhere.

Requirements
------------

The only dependencies for FIX Gateway are Python itself and ``pyyaml``.  If you
used pip3 to install FIX Gateway, the dependencies should have been installed
automatically. FIX Gateway requires Python 3.6 and should run on versions of
Python higher than 3.6.  It may run on versions of Python 2.x but Python 2.x
support is deprecated and it's expected that FIX Gateway will eventually stop
working with these older versions of Python.

If the ``psutil`` package is installed the server will be able to report
system and performance status.

Many of the plugins will require other dependencies.  See the individual plugin
documentation for information about those.  We'll discuss some of the more
common ones.

If you intend to use the gui plugin you will also need PyQt installed.  It
should work with either PyQt4 or PyQt5.  You'll have to consult the PyQt
documentation on how to install PyQt on your system.  Support for PyQt4 will
likely be dropped in the future as well.

The canfix plugin will require both the python-can package as well as the
python-canfix package.  Installing the python-canfix package with pip3 should
install both.


Basic Configuration
-------------------

FIX Gateway is configured through a configuration file named ``default.yaml``
that is located in the fixgw/config/ subdirectory of the distribution, or
installed into the proper place on the filesystem.  The configuration uses
`YAML` as it's  configuration language. Upon startup the server searches a
predefined set of directories, looking for the  configuration file.  If the
configuration is not found the program will attempt to install default
configuration files into the ``.makerplane`` directory in the users home folder.
If that fails the server will report an error and fail to start.

When the server finds the configuration file it remembers where and writes that
path to an internal variable that can be retrieved with ``{CONFIG}`` in other
parts of the configuration.

The first place the server will look for configuration is in the
``~/.makerplane/fixgw/config`` directory.  This is where individual user
configurations should be stored.  For machine wide configurations the system
directories such as ``/etc/fixgw`` or ``/usr/local/etc/fixgw`` can be used as
well.

The **database file** option tells FGW where to find the database definition
file. This file tells FGW how to build the internal database.  For details on
the format of the database definition file see the :doc:`database` section.

::

    database file: "{CONFIG}/default.db"

The **initialization files** is a way to initialize the data in the database
before the plugins are loaded. This will override the initial value defined in
the database definition file but it's mostly used to set up things like the V
speeds (Vfe, Vs, Vx, Vy, etc) or high and low alarm setpoints. It's preferable
that the end devices send this data as part of their communication but not all
end devices are designed to do this.  The initialization file is a way to
customize this data easily.  Any plugin that writes to the datbase can override
this data.  Information in files listed later in the list will override earlier
initialilzations.  The database is initialized once on startup with this
information.  Any connections will be able to overwrite this data at runtime.

::

  initialization files:
    - "{CONFIG}/c170b.ini"
    - "{CONFIG}/fg_172.ini"

In both of the above declarations the string `{CONFIG}` is used.  This will
be replaced with the location where pip3 installed the configuration files.
Relative paths can be used here as well and they will be relative to the
current directory from where the server was run.  Absolute paths to these
files can also be given.

There is a list of connections in the configuration file that determine which
connection plug-ins will be loaded.  Each item in this connection list represents
a specific connection plugin.  Here is a short snippet of the connections list...

::

  connections:
    # Network FIX Protocol Interface
    netfix:
      load: yes
      module: fixgw.plugins.netfix
      type: server
      host: 0.0.0.0
      port: 3490
      buffer_size: 1024
      timeout: 1.0


The above configuration tells FGW to load a connection plugin named *netfix* and
use the python module found at ``fixgw.plugins.netfix``. The `load` and `module`
configuration options are the only two mandatory items.  Any other options
inside a connection object would be passed 'as is' to the plugin.  The included
configuration file contains examples of all the plugins that ship with the FIX
Gateway distribution. Configuration of the individual plugins are documented
elsewhere.

The rest of the configuration file contains directives for message logging.  FGW
uses the built in Python logging module. This is for message logging of the
program itself.  Not to be confused with logging flight data which is handled
elsewhere.  Python's logging system is very sophisticated and can log
information in many different ways.  It can log to the terminal, a file, the
system logger, network sockets even email.  A description of all that this
system is capable of is beyond the scope of this documentation.  See Python's
logging module documentation for more details.  So far we don't add any logging
levels beyond what is included in the logger by default.

Running the server
-------------------

To run the program simply type the following at the command line.

::

    fixgw

There are a few command line arguments that can be used to adjust how the
program runs.  ``--debug`` is probably the most useful.  This forces the logging
module to set the loglevel to **debug**.  If you are having trouble getting things
to work the way you think they should using this argument can give you a lot of
information to discover where the problem is.  This option will produce a lot of
data and probably shouldn't be used in the actual airplane.

Also if ``--debug`` is set there are some exceptions that will be raised in
certain parts of the program that will stop the whole program.  Without this
flag they may simply cause a particular part of the program to stop
functioning.  With this flag it will raise the exception all the way to the top
so that we can get the traceback information for troubleshooting.  Again don't
set this flag unless you are troubleshooting.

Other command line options are ``--config-file`` and ``--log-config``.  These
set  alternate files for the main configuration and logging configuration
respectively. If the ``--log-config`` option is not set whatever file is used
for the main configuration will be used for logging.  The following command will
load an alternate configuration file and turn debugging on...

::

    fixgw --debug --config-file="test.yaml"

FGW will load the ``test.yaml`` file instead of the ``default.yaml``
configuration file that ships with the program.

Running the client
-------------------

FIX Gateway ships with a small client program that allows the user to interact
with the server through the netfix protocol.  The netfix plugin must be loaded
for this to work.

To run the client simply type the following at the command line.

::

    fixgwc
