============
Introduction
============

FIX is an acronym for Flight Information eXchange.  It is a set of protocol
specifications for exchanging information between aircraft avionics and flight
systems.  This specification and the protocols themselves are licensed under a
Creative Commons license that allows anyone to modify and redistribute these
documents without charge.

This is a community supported endeavor, with the primary goal of providing a
standard method for avionics and flight control systems to communicate with one
other in a vendor neutral way.

These specifications and protocols are primarily geared toward the Experimental
Amateur Built (E-AB) aircraft community.  Keeping the specification open and
free allows airplane builders to create their own devices and write their own
software that will be able to communicate with other devices without need to pay
for specifications or licenses.  It also encourages collaboration in the
development and improvement of the protocols themselves.

FIX is a protocol family.  This manual describes the operation of FIX Gateway.
A program designed to pass data between disparate technologies that may or may
not communicate with any of the FIX protocols.  Examples of use are...

* Allow an Electronic Flight Information System (EFIS) communicate with a flight
  simulator.

* EFIS communication to CAN-FIX or other FIX devices within the airplane

* Conversion of data from one format to a standard FIX type.

* Hardware interface to flight simulators.

* Testing


General Description
-------------------

FIX Gateway is a plug-in based program written in Python.  There is a central
database that is a repository for all of the information in the system.  A
plug-in would be loaded for each particular type of connection that is needed.
Each of these plug-ins communicates with the central database.  Each data item
represents a distinct aircraft data point.  Airspeed, altitude or oil pressure
are simple examples.

The database is determined by a database configuration file that is read during
start up.  The user can modify this file if need be to customize the database
for specific needs.

The plug-ins which would be loaded are determined by the main configuration file.

Possible Applications --------------------- The primary use case for FIX Gateway
is to integrate all the disparate flight information in the aircraft for display
on an Electronic Flight Information System (EFIS).  PyEFIS is a Python based
EFIS that is being developed in concert with FGW.  This allows the EFIS
designers to ignore all of the data interfaces that may be necessary and
concentrate on development of the EFIS.  FGW supplies a common interface through
a socket connection that abstracts the data so the EFIS does not care whether
the data comes from a flight simulator, a real airplane or is just being managed
manually by the programmer.

Once the EFIS program is finished and installed in the airplane it need not be
modified to get actual aircraft data.  Only the FGW configuration would need to
be changed

Another use for FGW is to make it easy to integrate flight simulator data into
other systems.  The EFIS could be used as an instrument for the flight simulator.
The entire aircraft panel could be duplicated in the EFIS/FGW and removed from
the flight simulator itself.  Interface to real equipment is simplified.  Since
FGW is written in Python it's quite easy to write a custom plug-in to read data
from any source and get it into the database.  Once in the database it's a
simple matter of configuring other plug-ins to move that data to/from other
sources.

For example, one plug-in could be written to read analog values from an Arduino
and then that information could be used as pilot inputs to FlightGear, X-Plane
or any other flight simulator that has an interface built for FGW.  It could
also be used as a real hardware interface for an actual aircraft as well but
good engineering practices should be used here for obvious reason.  Flight
controls should probably be done by other means in an actual aircraft.

It's conceivable that different flight simulators could be tied together using
this technology as well.  You could be flying a 172 in FlightGear and your
neighbor could fly with you in his RV using X-Plane.  The plug-ins for the
different flight simulators are not quite this sophisticated yet but it's
possible.
